At the Watchtower Educational Center in Paterson, New York, the 133rd Class of Gilead School approached the completion of their training.
It is the custom for the Bethel family to share a special meal and to benefit from personal expressions about Gilead from two of the students.
Brother Mark Sanderson, serving as chairman for the noon program, made his first televised appearance to the Bethel family as a newly appointed member of the governing body.
There was excitement in the air as brother Ken Stovall, a Gilead staff member, began his interviews with sister Lydia Mumba from Zambia and brother Joshua Kandari from India.
Well now that you've been through the Gilead course, was it what you expected it to be?
We knew that Gilead would be an intense Bible education.
But when we came here, we saw that this school had such a beautiful arrangement of helping us to get the main points from each book of the Bible.
I thought it was just like Gilead Jams starts you and just unlocks your thinking and your world of discovery so you can discover so much more.
Is there a point that you learned that you want to apply personally?
I would say the whole course worked on me personally, but one point comes to my mind.
I have learned that when applying the fruitage of the spirit, often there is a point where we set our own limit, for example kindness.
Usually when we do something kind for someone, we feel they should show appreciation.
And if they don't show the appreciation we were expecting, naturally we stop.
And then it's like we've reached our limit.
Now brother Kandari, how did you benefit from this thorough study of the Bible?
One thing I benefited most was considering both the context and the extended application of the scriptures.
Were there any lessons that you felt would be of practical value for you?
One point of practical application that stood out for me and many of my classmate and that was humility.
We learn especially with regard to the view of our privileges that they don't equate spirituality.
And loss of a privilege does not necessarily indicate loss of spirituality or maturity.
At the conclusion of the delicious meal and heartwarming interviews, the Bethel family return to their assignments, joyfully anticipating the graduation program to follow on Saturday.